* `grid.json` - the file that describe the powergrid and that can be read by the default backend.
* `config.py` - this file is imported when the environment is loaded. It is used to parametrize the way the environment is made. It should define a “config” variable. This “config” is dictionary that is used to initialize the environment.
* `chronics` - this folder contains the information to generate the production / loads at each steps.
* `grid_layout.json` - gives, for each substation its coordinate _(x,y)_ when plotted. It is optional, but we strongly encourage to have such
* `prod_charac.csv` - This contains all the information related to “ramps”, “pmin / pmax”, etc. This file is optional (grid2op can perfectly run without it). However, if absent, then the classes [`grid2op.Space.GridObjects.redispatching_unit_commitment_availble`](https://grid2op.readthedocs.io/en/latest/space.html#grid2op.Space.GridObjects.redispatching_unit_commitment_availble "grid2op.Space.GridObjects.redispatching_unit_commitment_availble") will be set to `False` thus preventing the use of some feature that requires it (for example _redispatching_ or _curtailment_)
* `storage_units_charac.csv` - This file is used for a description of the storage units. It is a description of the storage units needed by grid2op. This is optional if you don’t have any storage units on the grid but required if there are (otherwise a BackendError will be raised).
* `difficulty_levels.json` - This file is useful is you want to define different “difficulty” for your environment. It should be a valid json with keys being difficulty levels